# Java Transit App
A simple, yet scalable transit system app that tracks a user's trip activity through the system, while keeping and maintaining a record of all the activities done by the user.
# Background and more information
This app was created as part of a Software Design class at the University of Toronto and was done in teams of four people, using the Scrum workflow and emphasizing the use of Object-Oriented Programming principles, file management, git branches and pull requests, and design patterns to keep the code modular.

The app allows for two types of users: Cardholders and Admins. Cardholders are allowed to update their name, add and remove cards, view the balances of each of their cards, suspend a card if it gets lost, view their last three trips and view their average transit cost per month. All of the trips for a given day are entered within a text file which is initialized on the startup of the app and all of the app users, cards, trips, routes and the current date (which are all stored in separate text files) are loaded in and all the balances and calculations are done, with the addition of the new data from the current day. This is how the app keeps a record of everything even when it is closed. Admin users can do different things than cardholders; they are allowed to add or remove other admin users, add or remove cardholders, calculate daily revenue and the number of stops/stations reached by cardholders and set the various costs that a user is going to be charged (given the scenario) or will be allowed to add to their card. This ensures that the app is modular and gives the admin (presumably the client) the option to quickly change the variables holding the costs to best fit their business needs.

This app uses two major design patterns, Singleton and Model View Controller (MVC). The Singleton pattern is used to handle the text files and saving and loading data to and from them while the MVC pattern is used to link the backend model classes (objects) and the textview within a controller to keep every function of the app neatly separated. The app was built within two weeks and was done using the Scrum workflow. More specifically, there were two sprints -each lasting one week- and there was a meeting between team members every one to two days to get a status update and ensure everything was going smoothly. The project requirements were discussed and updated throughout the development of the app and assigned at the daily meetings. Each team member worked within a branch on the tasks they had been assigned and when they had completed the task, they pushed the branch and created a pull request, letting all of the other team members know. This way, most conflicts were prevented and any issues were easily resolved if they appeared.

All in all, the approach used for the development of this app ensured that all team members were on the same page at all times and if any issues were to arise, they could be quickly resolved; and the code was designed in a way where it is very readable and easy to change if there is a need at some point.
# How to use
In order to use this app, simply follow the following steps:

1. Download and install <a href="https://www.oracle.com/ca-en/java/technologies/javase/javase-jdk8-downloads.html">Java Development Kit 8</a> if you do not already have it installed
2. Clone the project repository
3. Open the project directory using a Java IDE such as <a href="https://www.eclipse.org/downloads/">Eclipse</a>
4. Locate the "Controller.java" file in the project directory, and open and run the file in the IDE, following along to the prompts displayed in the console.
